I couldn't not make this video. We have
so much pain in front of us when we're
trying to adjust to AI. I get so many
questions about Nate, why is my business
moving slow and Anthropic is able to
release like every week. I'll tell you
the answer is relatively simple. I made
this video to tell you why companies
like Anthropic and OpenAI and small
startups in the valley are able to ship
so so fast and why almost everybody else
isn't able to use AI that way. What is
their secret sauce? What is the thing
that they have? Hint, it's not AI. So,
in this video, you are going to learn
the 15 rules of the road that I use to
help teams move toward that kind of fast
shipping cadence. I think operators have
a new job in the AI era. Move more of
the company's repeatable human
interactions toward code. They are
changing where the company lives. They
do it in different ways. Decisions that
used to vanish inside meetings, for
example, they become documents that
people can refer to, but really that
agents can act on. And that's a hint.
Product managers who used to direct
engineers through ticketing work now put
things in the terminal and work with
engineers directly there. Reviews, they
become eval. Repeated reminders, they
become systems that agents can act on
and build and improve on over time.
Design gets into code, gets into the SDK
in ways that it never did in the 2010s.
Look, I'm not saying every human
interaction moves into software. Trust
stays human. Taste stays human. But a
lot of the repeatable parts of
coordination that we use to run our
businesses can be moved toward code so
we can speed up execution with agents.
If every decision has to be reexplained
by a person, the humans become the rate
limit on the business. And that is the
distinguishing factor between companies
like Anthropic and OpenAI that are
shipping quick and companies everywhere
else that are not shipping as fast. And
that is why I've written 15 commandments
to guide organizational change toward
this kind of AI future. And I'm sharing
them with you here today. They are
actual commandments. I did have fun with
this. I wrote thou shalt not language
etc. And I want to share them and
discuss them because I want us to
understand how together they form a
system that we can use to move our
organization toward a faster shipping
cadence toward a world where we all are
able to move as quickly as these AI
tools allow. Now, each of these 15
commandments exists because AI has
changed the work underneath it. Some
move coordination out of meetings and
into durable systems. Some move product
judgment closer to actually building.
Protect the time now made more valuable
by quick execution because the value of
our time is shifted. And the rest
protect human relationships that let a
company operate at that speed with high
trust. Together we've got one intention.
Find the point of greatest leverage for
the business and for the humans involved
in the business and then move scarce
human judgment to that point. The
easiest analogy here is digital
photography. Back when film cost money,
and I remember those days, a family
might take 24 pictures on a vacation or
48 pictures on a vacation. Somebody
chose the shot, somebody waited for
everyone to look at the camera. I
remember that. The price of film and the
complexity of processing that film
supplied a kind of discipline in how
many images were produced. Digital
photography completely removed that
price barrier. And now you can have
40,000 pictures and six versions of the
exact same sunset and no idea where your
kid's birthday went in that pile of
40,000 pictures. This is what AI has
done to all of work. The cost of another
draft, another prototype, another
analysis, another piece of code is
collapsing to zero. The old scarcity
used to force choices and a lot of our
organizations are designed to force
those choices. But when it disappeared,
the choices did not become less
important. They actually just became
easier to avoid. So an AI heavy company
needs to answer two questions to
successfully process this volume. One,
what can we make now? What are we
unwilling to spend time on, even if it's
nearly free? Getting to these 15
commandments helps you answer those
questions. Let's start with commandment
one. Thou shalt not slow down
engineering. Thou shalt go fast. I get
that that sounds like what every Silicon
Valley startup says. So let me be
specific about what I mean. Speed is not
asking people to work more with AI just
for the sake of working with AI. Speed
is really about accelerating learning
loops. And learning loops are driven by
what we can put in front of customers
which is driven by the code we can put
together. The old process stretched the
distance between these bets because
every change consumed scarce engineering
capacity and the original question might
have moved by then. I have been the
product manager that launched something
and the original question had changed.
Right? A lot of us have AI has removed
so much of the cost of the queue that
the queue itself isn't really relevant
anymore. And then we don't have issues
with the queue and we can actually focus
our time on saying given this enormous
engineering velocity that we're
protecting, how do we build ambitiously
to deliver extraordinary value to
customers. So commandment one puts every
other rule on trial. Does this meeting
shorten the path from evidence to a
better product? Does it shorten our
learning loop? If it doesn't, get rid of
it. Does this document carry a decision?
If it doesn't, get rid of it. Does this
approval actually catch a risk or is it
just paperwork? Does this handoff
improve the customer experience or is it
not really worth doing? If we cannot
name the job that we're doing with the
process around engineering and how it's
actually delivering value in this world
with an agentified development pipeline,
then we're probably slowing down the
process. The other scarce thing is
distribution. Building something that
nobody sees is still worth 0, just as it
was 10 years ago. Cheap execution raises
the premium on deciding what deserves to
exist and getting the useful thing in
front of the right person. To make it
simple, I'm going to put these in
clusters and I'm going to show you the
rule clusters, the commandment clusters,
right, that matter the most, why each
one exists because of AI and why none of
them is safe to copy alone. You need to
go through all 15 because they are a
system that works together. Let's take
the most provocative cluster first.
Commandment three, product does not make
road maps. Commandment five, product
does not control or direct engineering
time. If I just stopped there, I would
not have a radical new operating system
for building companies. I would just
have a good way to produce confusion,
right? But now we live in a different
world. AI has driven the cost of
building to zero. So what does that mean
for us in roadmap world? A team can now
put a working version in front of a
customer before the old roadmap meeting
would have found a free hour on
everyone's calendar. And I'm not
kidding. With tools like 5.6 Ultra, with
tools like Fable 5, with a multi- aent
system like Ringer, which I talked about
this week, you can get an entire product
out there before 2 days from now when
you have the meeting. But that doesn't
remove the need for product judgment.
Instead, it removes the need for product
to stay out of the code. So, commandment
four goes with commandments three and
five. It says product shall be in the
terminal daily. You will get into the
code one way or another. Commandment six
is in the same cluster. It says product
shall sit with engineering and jam
daily. But you take on the obligation as
a PM to sit in the work, touch the
material, bring the customer and make
decisions while the thing is becoming
real. Remember I started by saying you
don't slow down engineering. Getting PM
into the code, getting product to jam
with engineering on the code so that we
are focused on the artifact that's being
produced for the customer. That is what
enables us to do good product thinking
without slowing down the whole train.
And I want to make something clear. The
core questions these job competencies
need to answer aren't changing.
Engineering still has to answer. Does
this code work and will it keep working
and that is a high bar and a lot of
teams are using AI to slip by on that.
Product still has to answer. Should this
exist and does anybody care enough to
use it? Same terminal, maybe you're in
the codebase together. Different
questions. And that's why commandment 13
matters. Act like all that matters is
one profoundly helpful and delightful
customer experience. You are doing the
coordination work that all of the
roadmap process used to do. Commandment
12 gets at this. It broadens out the
product surface for design. Design is in
the code, right? The terminal is a
design space. The SDK is a design space.
So is the UI. When a payment fails and
the error tells the customer exactly
what to do next, somebody designed that
fallback experience. When an agent
reaches a permission boundary, yes,
we're designing for agents now, and
explains what it needs to do instead of
failing silently, someone designed that
agentic experience. A designer who only
designs screens is now designing the
lobby while the rest of the building
gets built without them. We don't want
to be in that position because we need
the questions design asks all the way
through our technical systems. I don't
see a world where we aren't using
design. I see a world where design is
overmployed because there's so many more
surfaces that need good design input. So
these different commandments I
mentioned, these rules of the road, they
form one system. If you remove road
maps, you have to have a system for
replacing distant coordination with
daily contact, clear accountability, and
a customer experience that's concrete
enough that you can judge. And you need
to be able to do all of that in real
time. That's what that whole cluster of
commandments is all about. So here's our
writing system. Commandment two says no
meetings longer than an hour. If that
forces documentation, that is the point.
You want to be prioritizing
documentation because increasingly we
have agents that need to have feedback
on the things we discuss in meetings.
Writing is a forcing function for
agents. And this gets to commandment 11,
which talks about documentation as code.
I mean that more literally than I would
have meant it even a year or so ago.
Agents read documents and they use them
to decide what to do. A document can
supply the standard, the source
hierarchy, the permissions, the
escalation path, the definition of done.
If you have ambiguous documents, you are
just spreading chaos through that
system. You need to obsess over your
documents so that they are clear.
Otherwise, you're just pushing that
chaos downstream. And that's actually
the risk of AI slop. I don't care if you
say you're absolutely right in a
document. I do care if you know what's
in it. I care if you understand what
you're trying to accomplish with that
document. And so often when people sit
down to write, they don't have that
clarity. And what comes through is AI
slot because the human clarity isn't
there. There's no substitute for that. I
want to be really clear about that.
There's no substitute for that. I
learned the discipline behind writing at
Amazon. Long before the current agent
wave, we had to type everything by hand
like troglodites. I once got to 57
drafts of a six-page narrative. In
product, we had a culture of learning to
write from one another. We would take
lunches and sit down and review docs
together because that helped us make our
own docs better and it helped us to
critique others. It helped us to ask
questions better. It led to a stronger
document culture that should not die. We
don't all need to adopt the exact same
document standards as Amazon, but we all
need to care about our writing that much
in the age of agents. We need to treat
the clarity of intent we communicate
through writing with that degree of
rigor. And this is where we get to
commandment 7. So commandment 7 talks
about killing monthly meetings. We want
to be in a place where we are auditing
our regular time commitments and we are
allocating more time to building because
as I discussed earlier in this video,
it's an incredible time to build. We
have so much leverage in building if we
have ambition, if we have alignment. And
if you're wondering, I did actually
build a tool for this. I built a tool to
help you audit your meetings because
this is something that is personal to
me. I want to make sure we use our time
well. If we're going to have meetings, I
want them to be effective. So if that's
you, if you want to use your time
better, I've got a tool for you. There's
there's a link below. We can get into
it. So that's the writing cluster. We
talk about the quality at which we need
to write. We talk about our time
commitment. We talk about how we spend
time in meetings. We talk about where we
go with writing so we can save time in
meetings. And you can see how this all
adds up to thinking about intent. Are we
communicating intent clearly in
meetings? Are we communicating intent
clearly in writing? The third cluster is
a behavioral cluster. It's for us
humans. It's about making the speed of
AI survivable for human cultures and
teams because it is a big change. So,
Commandment 8 talks about staying
flexible to deliver value like like
water over stone. They're able to adapt.
I think that's especially important. I
know you've seen that in business books.
But the reason that matters in the age
of AI is because we are communicating
and writing more. We're used to talking
face to face. We now have more value on
those facetoface meetings. And it's
really important that the writing level
up and that we assume best intent.
There's no reason, no matter what your
level is, to moan or complain. And the
reason why is that we all have access to
an incredible amount of intelligence and
tooling to build solutions. We should be
in a position, regardless of our level
in the business, where we can either
directly fix the problem we're worried
about or propose a fix and propose a
complete fix. And that gets to
commandment 14, which talks about
building with a team. You do not build
alone. And this is somewhat
controversial. I know that there are
entire startups out there that are all
about the oneperson billion-dollar
company. I believe enduring businesses
are built with teams. They may not be as
large as they were in the past because
we can do so much with a small team
that's wellcoordinated, but great small
teams build incredible things and
they're building together because
building together enables us to catch
each other's mistakes, to clarify intent
for AI, and ultimately to build more
effectively for customers. Find a
community. Doesn't have to be mine. Find
somebody else's community. That's great,
but find a community. Teamwork matters
because cheap individual output is not
the same as making something that people
want. One person and one agent can
produce an enormous amount of material,
but they still need all of us working
together to get to taste and domain
knowledge and customer connection and
brand and willingness to say that this
doesn't work and have some courage to
actually confront that. And there's one
more commandment I want to bring up here
that's in this cluster of of adjusting
to our world of AI. I call it the
teaching commandment. It's about helping
folks along who are not going as fast
and learning from folks who are going
faster. That is how we all get faster
together. It's true in organizations. If
you don't have an organization or if you
want to learn from others, it's true
outside in internet communities as well.
Now, before we close, there are two
common ways to ruin this whole concept.
And the first is partial adoption. If
you only take the no roadmap rule for
example, but you don't get your PMs into
the code, all you're doing is producing
chaos. And one of the things I see in
the journey of adoption for a lot of
firms outside the valley is that they
don't realize that they have to actually
do this process all at once or it's
going to fail. And it's going to be
painful, but it's easier to adjust to it
if you set out the entire expectation
set. Why am I talking about all these at
once? It can be overwhelming to get 15
of these rules and be like, "Oh my gosh,
it's too much." But I want to let you
know that I'm sharing them all at once
because the teams that I see that are
successfully accelerating cadences
aren't biting this off piece by piece.
They are actually looking at this as an
interconnected systems where humans need
to change. Clarity of intent needs to
change around writing and getting into
the code needs to change. The way you
get into the code needs to change. And
so there is no substitution. And that's
why I want to call out two failure modes
that I see. One of them, as I'm kind of
hinting, is just taking a part of this.
Oh, you know what, Nate? You're right.
We should get better at no meetings.
That's not going to get you where you
want to go. You actually have to look at
the whole system as a way of building
human infrastructure to accelerate
moving the company toward a codefocused,
agentfocused reality. You are moving
more of the company into code so that
agents can operate against it. So you
can get higher quality, faster results.
That's really what this is all about.
And so a lot of the root of why OpenAI
and Anthropic are shipping faster is
because they have had this culture. They
are teaching this culture. They are
inculcating this culture and they are
hiring for this culture. And so they're
reinforcing it as they go and it's
speeding up. It's like everyone they
hire at Anthropic is expecting this kind
of speed now. And that makes it so much
easier than coming into a company where
everyone expected quarterly releases and
trying to get them to speed up. There is
a massive culture change and that is
part of what is going on. And that is
why I keep saying you got to have this
whole conversation and be willing to
move the whole business forward. Okay,
if you want to dive into this much more
deeply, I have a whole Substack article
on this that you can dig into. There's
obviously the calendar tool that I built
for this. And I have, of course, a
companion guide that you can run
through, feed to your agent, and
actually build a complete change
management process for you, for your
company, for your team, whatever scale
you're at. Because I want to make this
easy. I want you to be able to apply
this in a way that's useful for you.
This video is a starting point. This
video should get you thinking about what
it really takes to transform in the age
of AI. I hope it does. I hope you had
fun. I hope you're excited for it.
There's a whole discussion on that
coming on Monday.